All updated Surge presets in this archive were created from a copy of the Surge Synth Team\SurgeData\patches_3rdparty\Jacky Ligon presets included in the Surge 1.8.0 release, and include many optimizations and enhancements for 1.8.1.

Although these patches are better CPU optimized, users should be aware that Poly voices settings are not saved in presets, so sometimes it may be necessary to set the number of voices lower than the default of 8 for best performance.

Ambiance: Designed for Surge 1.8.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Atmospheres: Dual-Mode Patches Designed for Surge 1.7.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Keys: Designed for Surge 1.7.0, with some new preset additions for 1.8.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Soundscapes: Designed for Surge 1.7.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Surge-D: Designed for Surge 1.8.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Surge-XFS: Designed for Surge 1.8.0 | Updated for 1.8.1

Volume balanced and optimized for lower CPU usage, with shorter Amp and Filter EG release times, as well as lower numbers of unison-voices.

Enhancements include reworking the FX section, re-voicing each instrument, and in a number of presets, adding a global unison-detune macro for making adjustments to all unison-detune voices as a group, which will make it easier to quickly modify and compensate for keyspace pitch-displacements when working with SCL microtuning tables having less or greater than 12 notes to the repetition-interval.

Basses
No new additions.

Leads
15 New Leads for 1.8.1.
Please note, that due to adding the new presets, one in this category was renamed, from Shredder to Shredder 1, and Shredder 2 and Shredder 3 were added, which use the Distortion FX.


Plucks
13 New Plucks for 1.8.1.

Sequences
Subtle enhancements, no new additions.

Splits | Designed for Surge 1.7.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Volume balanced with subtle enhancements, and one completely reworked patch.

String Machines | Designed for Surge 1.8.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Volume balanced with subtle enhancements.

Surge-3X81Z | Designed for Surge 1.8.0 | Updated for 1.8.1
Volume balanced and optimized for lower CPU usage, with shorter Amp and Filter EG release times, as well as lower numbers of unison-voices. Enhancements include reworking the FX section, re-voicing each instrument, and adding a global unison-detune macro.

Templates
Subtle enhancements, no new additions.

An Important Note About These Patches: The Surge-3X81Z presets have harmonic pitch intervals set between each of the three oscillators in a Scene for the FM C:M. Due to the interactions of keyspace pitch offsets with SCL microtuning tables, it is suggested to only use 12-note, 2/1, octave repeating SCL microtuning tables with these patches to preserve the intended oscillator intervals, and the timbre of each instrument. Using SCL microtuning tables with less or greater than 12-notes to the octave will result in pitch-displacements of the harmonic C:M, and therefore will radically change the timbre.








